Good Stripes tutorials / examples? stripes I've never used (or even heard of) Stripes. Regardless, there's a book from The Pragmatic Bookshelf called Stripes: ...and Java web development is fun again that may be worth checking out. You could also check out the Stripes mailing list archive. We considered it when we were looking at open source frameworks. But we saw the same thing your did that there really just isn't much support or information for it. You should always weight the community support factor surrounding open source projects before picking one. (which is what you are doing here) :) I recommend checking out the book referenced by jko: a book from The Pragmatic Bookshelf called Stripes: ...and Java web development is fun again Whilst still in 'beta' the book covers everything very well. Another good place to start is this ONJava article. I have used Stripes on a few projects now and have liked it a lot. It may sound crazy but the Stripes quickstart and sample application documentation on the website does a pretty good job of covering the bases. This is helped by the fact there is little to Stripes, probably because it is relatively new and not trying to be all things to all people. I would say give the quick-start a try and if by the end of it you are unsatisfied look elsewhere. At the end of the day you and your company have to be happy (and productive) with what you are using irrespective of how many people are using it. Stripes is a great framework. We converted a major project from a home grown framework to stripes and it took less than one week. The book referenced above is a great resources, as is the mailing list. There's also an active irc channel #stripes on freenode. It's a very powerful framework that doesn't get in your way. It's a shame that some people perceive Stripes as a framework for which "there really just isn't much support or information for it." In reality, the Stripes community is very supportive - have a look at the mailing list and you'll see how friendly and responsive people are. In fact, some have said on the #stripes IRC channel that they have had better response for Hibernate-related questions than on #hibernate itself! Give Stripes a good, serious look instead of dismissing it because of misconceptions.