Any data-driven open source JEE5 EJB3+JSF Sample Project out there? open-source jsf java-ee java-ee-5 I am not sure is it 100% what your looking for, but check out the built in example that comes packaged with NetBeans 6.1. It uses JSF/EJB3/ApacheDerby. I played around with it for like 20 minutes and thought it was pretty cool as a simple/starter JavaEE application to learn from. Seam examples are quite good - they are stand-alone projects, that you may deploy out of the box. I have to second jb's comment: The seam examples are great and can be put to use. The Seam Homepage uses the Seam Wiki from the examples (that application alone fulfills all the outlined criteria). Other examples in the distribution: Hotel Booking, DVD Store, and a Blog. The documentation contains quite some information on the special parts of the examples. The "problem" might be that Seam covers a lot of the details you'd usually have to do in a traditional EJB3/JSF application. You might want to have a look at AppFuse or AppFuse Light. They have one application with examples using different technologies, including EJB3 (JPA only) and JSF. The examples are not as sophisticated (don't really fulfill your criteria), but contain a lot of useful stuff. I feel your pain, this is not an answer, as much as an observation that the Java World in general suffers from the lack of good applications that go beyond the tutorial. Some of the sample .NET applications are very good and show interesting techniques, while solving small enough problems that the novice can wrap their heads around the entire application and see "real code" doing "real things". I have not looked at the Seam examples, so they may well be an exception, but having sample applications, particularly the CRUD, Query, Report style back office applications you're talking about, are a great help to folks and I wish there were more in the Java community. You might poke around at these real world JSF apps and see if any of them have their source available: RealWorldJsfLinks