Is there some tool to visualize Java class hierarchies and relations? class-hierarchy If you use the Netbeans IDE it does have tools to reverse engineer your source code into UML class diagrams. After loading your source code into the IDE. You can create a new UML->Reverse Engineered java-platform model. Check out This Netbeans Wiki page for more details. visual representation of the relationship between classes, NetBeans can draw you UML diagram from classes, and I guess any decent UML tool could also. method calls etc. UML also have types of diagrams used for this, I've never tried to get it out of a source, but presumably, some of the UML programs could do it. What you need is usually done by class of tools called RAD. Good example would be PowerBuilder. You can get diagrams (class diagrams, etc) using Reverse engineering process. Eclipse has quite a few UML plugins. In particular, Slime UML and Green are both free and both promise to perform reverse engineering. Please note that Slime has received a much higher rating from the community. Borland produce by far best tool for this sort of thing - Together. It gives you a full model driven approach to development, so that might be overkill for what you require. It is commerically licensed, but they provide a community edition for non commerical work. There are eclipse plugins that can do UML reverse engineering - here is a long list. I have tried some of the free ones, and quite liked slime and argo. You can try Rational Systems Developer. It is ofcourse based on eclipse platform!! You can do transformations to and from UML. I had some minor issues with lack of support for primitive types but nothing major.. Structure 101 is a great tool. Costs money though... Link to Wiki describing it, for some reason the vendor site is down ATM I would advise yDoc. It uses Javadoc with a custom doclet, and generates really nice UML diagrams. However, it costs money although a trial version is available if you ask :) See UDoc. It is very simple to use, with nice clear dynamic diagrams. I've used it with compiled classes, but apparently it also works with javadoc & source. I'm using ObjectAid, it is very simple to use - just drag and drop Java classes / interfaces and you get simple visualisation. Recently I struggled with similar problem to more easily do maintenance tasks (bug searching and fixing). And while there are many tools to reverse engineer java to UML (see this) I found that since eclipse improved the call hierarchy and added removing unnecessary methods, it's even better that other tools. The uml sequence diagrams are big and you are unable to see so many things at once than in the eclipse call hierarchy. So just ctrl+alt+h, remove unnecessary calls (like tests calls), and you have great documentation of the call logic in your app. Afaik this feature is part of the featureset of the Jetbrains Intellij IDEA IDE. Here's the feature description