Game programming in Java? game-engine there is the excellent open source 3d engine called jMonkey (http://www.jmonkeyengine.com) which is being used for a few commercial projects as well as hobby developers... there is also at a lower level the lwjgl library which jmonkeyengine is built on which is a set of apis to wrap opengl as well as provide other game specific libs... I haven't directly done any game programming but some scene-demo coding and have found that JOGL is really a quite nice framework to work with. It's Java OpenGL so it has a rich 3D functionality and i do believe there are some open source graphic engines done for it aswell. GTGE (www.goldenstudios.or.id) is an excellent 2D Java Game Library, with tutorials and an extensive API. It has gone open-source in its latest version, and the source can be downloaded, browsed, etc. at gtge.googlecode.com. Despite the odd name ( pretty sure he's talking about the soft drink...), this site has loads of resources and examples games both 2D and 3D. Coke and Code http://www.javagaming.org/ is a good source for up-to-date information. Another framework not mentioned yet is Xith3D Also check Pulp core - deals with the most common problems facing Java gaming. As an update, a couple of the JMonkeyEngine guys have forked that project to create Ardor3d, a new version of which was recently released, so its still under active development. Project Darkstar is also still actively developed. Indeed DarkMMO an opensource example Darkstar game is being currently refactored to use the latest version of both Darkstar and Ardor3d. I've made a list of a bunch of tutorials that should be of help As mentioned by all others in this topic, there are plenty of excellent libraries/engines available for building games in Java. Game programming in Java is definitely feasible. Keep in mind though that, as with any other language, getting real-time performance will always take some effort. I wrote a small article about my experiences with using Java for our 3D breakout game 'Caromble!'. It is mainly about the steps we had to take to get our game running smoothly. http://www.caromble.com/2013/05/java-game-programming/ I like to code games a bit in my free time. I use a library called slick2d which makes programming the back-end a lot easier. For example, you can copy/paste the example 'main' class file from the Slick2d Wiki and you have your game loop as well as the Update() and Render() methods all ready to go. Slick 2d is based on LWGJL and uses it to load images and do other cool things with OpenGL. There is also a bunch of helpful topics at: http://www.java-gaming.org/